ABOUT
-----
SEDUCE stands for "ShellcodE Detection Using CPU Emulation". 

SEDUCE is a tiny Network Intrusion Detection System (NIDS) that reports alerts
to a Prelude SIEM system.

The 'master' repo branch follows a simple design with 'agent' and 'sensor'
nodes, where the agent nodes carry out the packet investigation and the
sensor nodes carry out the traffic collection. The '3-tier-arch' is a somewhat
older branch that introduces a central "manager" node that passes job units to
agents.

SEDUCE detection capabilities vary depending on the built-in detection engines. Incoming traffic is inspected through all available detection engines.

Engines currently supported:
- qemu (this is an older emulation engine based on QEMU 0.12.4 that allows detecting self modifying shellcode for linux/x86 architectures; it currently requires a build environment of circa 2010)
- libemu (this is an emulation engine based on an old version of the libemu "GetPC" detection code)
- unicorn (this is an emulation engine based on the Unicorn engine, that identifies linux/x86_64 shellcode, but not self-modifying code)
- dummy (a dummy detection engine)
- fnord (a fnord-like signature based detection engine for x86 nop sleds)
- pyopty2 (a python-based signature detection engine for meterpreter's opty2
  nop sled generator)

The 'agent/shellcodes' directory contains sample payloads to test detection
capabilities.

BUILD
-----
With the exception of the QEMU detection engine, SEDUCE can generally be built on a modern system.

To build SEDUCE from source on a Debian system you will need:
- git gcc automake autoconf libtool autoconf-archive make
- libglib2.0-dev libconfuse-dev default-mysql-server libprelude-dev libpreludedb-dev prelude-manager libpcap-dev libnet1-dev libnids-dev prelude-utils prelude-utils libpreludedb7-mysql

Once all dependencies have been installed, do:
$ ./autogen.sh
$ ./configure
$ make

INSTALL
-------
# make install

Latest code should be available through:
git clone https://github.com/seduceIDS/seduce.git

PROJECT HOMEPAGE
----------------
Latest code is available through:
git clone https://github.com/seduceIDS/seduce.git

Bug reports / push requests are welcome on the project github page.

LICENSE
-------
SEDUCE is available under a GPLv3 license (see COPYING).
